website/integrations: Add christiaangoossens/hass-oidc-auth to the Home Assistant integration docs (#21730)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/miscellaneous/home-assistant/index.md

## Configuration methods

> Home Assistant does not have support for any SSO protocols out of the box. Therefore, it is necessary to install a custom integration first. The community has developed multiple custom integrations for OIDC support in Home Assistant:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Home Assistant does not have support for any SSO protocols out of the box. Therefore, you must install a custom integration first. The Home Assistant community has developed multiple custom integrations for OIDC support:
```

- [cavefire/hass-openid](https://github.com/cavefire/hass-openid)
- [christiaangoossens/hass-oidc-auth](https://github.com/christiaangoossens/hass-oidc-auth)

> Both use the **OpenID Connect** standard to link authentik to Home Assistant securely, but each have their own values, security standards and features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both use the OpenID Connect standard to link authentik to Home Assistant securely, but each have their own values, security standards and features.
```

also, is the best word really "link"? Open to suggestions

## Configuration methods

The community has developed multiple custom OIDC integrations for Home Assistant:

> - https://github.com/cavefire/hass-openid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [cavefire/hass-openid](https://github.com/cavefire/hass-openid)
```

> - https://github.com/christiaangoossens/hass-oidc-auth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [christiaangoossens/hass-oidc-auth](https://github.com/christiaangoossens/hass-oidc-auth)
```

Both are explained in their own tabs below. You should evaluate which integration is the best fit for you before continuing with this guide. Both use the **OpenID Connect** standard to link authentik to Home Assistant securely, but each have their own values and features.

import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";

<Tabs
defaultValue="chr_auth_oidc"
values={[

> { label: "OIDC (christiaangoossens/hass-oidc-auth)", value: "chr_auth_oidc" },

Reviewer: if both are oidc, and we mention it above, I wouldn't repeat that information in these tabs

## Resources

- [Integration repository](https://github.com/cavefire/hass-openid)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="chr_auth_oidc">
## authentik configuration
    
To support the integration of Home Assistant with authentik, you need to create an application/provider pair in authentik.

### Create an application and provider in authentik

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the authentik Admin interface.

2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **Create with Provider** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can first create a provider separately, then create the application and connect it with the provider.)
    - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
    - Choose a **Provider Type**: select **OAuth2/OpenID Connect** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
        - Note the **Client ID**, **Client Secret**, and **slug** values because they will be required later.

>         - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to `https://hass.company/auth/oidc/callback`.

Reviewer: Intentional difference in scheme and port number with the other provider? If not, i'd say the one might be confusing as it could imply that only direct access rather than over a reverse proxy

Author: Nope, i don't know why they used a port number. I assumed 'hass.company' was just a stand-in for the full path regardless of proxy

        - Select any available signing key (to use the RS256 `id_token_signing_alg`)
    - Configure Bindings (optional): you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/bindings-overview/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

## Home Assistant configuration

:::tip

> You can find a more detailed configuration guide, with picture guidance, at [https://github.com/christiaangoossens/hass-oidc-auth/blob/main/docs/provider-configurations/authentik.md](https://github.com/christiaangoossens/hass-oidc-auth/blob/main/docs/provider-configurations/authentik.md).

Reviewer: Let's just move this to the references section and update the href with an according title

:::

:::info

> This guide describes the UI configuration method, but you can also configure the integration using YAML.

Reviewer: Can we add the yaml configuration steps?

Author: Sure, the basic YAML config is pretty easy, although I don't know if I am a fan of having all the docs twice,  so it might be best to only have the most common path in the Authentik docs and have the more uncommon ones in the integration repo.

Reviewer: I'd rather try to maximize information in our integration docs rather than pointing externally for most stuff

Author: In that case it might be the best to copy https://github.com/christiaangoossens/hass-oidc-auth/blob/main/docs/provider-configurations/authentik.md entirely as it contains exactly what you would like to see. I am however mostly against putting too much detail externally as I normally only update the docs in the repo to minimize maintenance chores.

:::

> 1. Install 'OpenID Connect/SSO Authentication' from the HACS store.

Reviewer: How do you do that? is it something part of HA? If so, you should provide steps to reach it, if not, you should link to the link, a direct link to the integration in the store might be even better

Author: Do you think it would be better to replace all the instructions to just a link to the full instructions with these links and pictures over in the integration repo? I really don't want to repeat everything twice. Quite a hassle to keep updated 😅

Reviewer: https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/pull/21730#discussion_r3125342740

> 2. Open Home Assistant and go to **Settings** > **Devices & Services**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Log in to Home Assistant as an administrator and go to **Settings** > **Devices & Services**.
```

Also, how does one reach settings? Is it a label, a button, something in the sidebar?

Author: See full version in the other repo with pictures. This would be clear for most users of HA.

> 3. Click Add Integration and select **OpenID Connect/SSO Authentication**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click **Add Integration** and select **OpenID Connect/SSO Authentication**.
```
